AGENT USAGE

This project used a coding agent as an engineering assistant for planning,
review, debugging, and test-driven validation. The agent was not treated as a
replacement for project ownership. Its output was reviewed, tested, and adjusted
against the course specifications before submission.

Customized PLAN Workflow

We used a plan-first workflow for non-trivial changes:

1. Read the relevant lab document, README requirement, or existing code path.
2. Identify the affected lab surface: Lab 1 buffer pool, Lab 2 B+ tree/storage,
   Lab 3 execution/catalog, or Lab 4 concurrency.
3. State the intended fix before editing code.
4. Keep the implementation scope small and consistent with the existing
   project style.
5. Define the expected verification commands before considering the change
   complete.

This workflow was especially useful when a bug crossed lab boundaries, such as
an execution-layer index scan depending on storage-layer B+ tree behavior.

Customized REVIEW Workflow

We used a review-first workflow after meaningful changes:

1. Review the change from the perspective of Labs 1 through 4, not only the
   file that was edited.
2. Prioritize correctness issues, behavioral regressions, and missing tests.
3. Check whether a fix only satisfies a unit test or also satisfies the course
   requirement described in docs/.
4. Classify remaining concerns as blocking issues or residual risks.
5. Re-run focused tests first, then run the full test suite.

The review process emphasized concrete evidence: file references, failing or
passing test commands, and specific edge cases.

Testing Workflow

Testing was treated as the main source of confidence. We used focused tests
while debugging and full tests before finalizing:

- ctest --test-dir build -R b_plus_tree --output-on-failure
- ctest --test-dir build -R executor_test --output-on-failure
- ctest --test-dir build -R lab1_eval_test --output-on-failure
- ctest --test-dir build -R lab2_eval_test --output-on-failure
- ctest --test-dir build -R lab3_eval_test --output-on-failure
- ctest --test-dir build -R lab4_eval_test --output-on-failure
- ctest --test-dir build --output-on-failure

When a defect was found, we preferred adding a regression test that captured the
failure mode before relying on a code change. This was used for B+ tree edge
cases such as non-rightmost leaf separator updates, large unique-key insertions,
and oversized explicit page-size parameters.

View on AI and Test Data

In the AI era, for medium-scale software projects, high-quality test data and
test scenarios are often the most valuable part of the system. Implementation
code can be generated, rewritten, or refactored quickly, but good tests encode
the actual requirements, corner cases, invariants, and user expectations.

For this project, tests served three roles:

1. They described expected behavior more precisely than informal discussion.
2. They prevented fixes in one lab from silently breaking another lab.
3. They made agent-assisted changes auditable and reproducible.

Because of this, the workflow treated tests and evaluation scenarios as durable
project assets rather than as disposable checks.

Human Oversight

The agent suggested plans, inspected code, proposed fixes, and ran tests. Final
decisions about scope, acceptance, and submission remained under human control.
No hidden course tests or external private grading data were used.
